Field Strategy GuideHVAC SILOWhy Use A Process?The Field Strategy Guide is our playbook, a playbook that has been shown to give our customers an outstanding experience every time and achieve the outcomes that our team desires simultaneously. It’s not that no other processes work, but the Field Strategy Guide has been proven again and again, over the course of years, to put us in the position to bring a ton of value to our customers while also generating revenue to keep the company in business. So just like with a professional sports team, we trust the playbook and we coach our players to execute the playbook.When we have a proven process, it provides benefits to all parties involved: the customer, the technician, and their manager or for several reasons:  First, having an in-home process that we coach and execute on will provide our customers with a consistent, high-level experience. If you reach out to any organization in the world who is renowned for their customer experience (think Four Seasons), they are following a process. If we want to be the equivalent for our customers, a proven process is our starting point. Second, it removes a lot of the in-the-moment decision making on the technician’s end. If we have a proven way that things should be done, our technicians get to focus on what’s actually important: the customer. They don’t have to be worried about what to do next, they just get to let their personality shine and provide our customer with an amazing experienceThird, it provides service managers a basis for coaching. If everyone on our team were doing something different, and everyone was struggling to meet our expectations, how do we even know where to begin when it comes to improvement? Imagine a scenario where you, as a coach, are working with 10 different technicians, working on 10 different things being said or done and trying to improve them all. By having a process as our standard, it gives us a target to coach towards, allowing us to make measurable progress in the direction of something that works across our entire team in a repeatable way.Process OverviewSteps of the ProcessWe’ll dive into each step of the process in detail throughout this document, but here is a high-level overview of each step:The Ready StepThe Ready Step is designed to ensure our technicians are prepared to complete a call and help our customers and provide them with a five-star experience every time.Our Ready Step begins when our technicians begin their day and continues until they arrive at their call. After your first call, we return to the ready step until we arrive at our next call.The Welcome StepThere are a lot of anxieties, and a lot of question marks, a customer is experiencing when they have us come out to their home, especially if it’s a demand service call but they’re still present if it’s a tune-up or membership visit. As we move through our Welcome Step, our goal is to get our customers to feel comfortable with us in their home, build a relationship where they like and trust us, and ensure that we have mutually agreed upon expectations for the visit.Our Welcome Step begins when we arrive at the home and continues until we begin our thorough evaluation of the system.The Assessment StepIf we truly want to help our customer, we need to understand what’s important to them and how we can help them achieve their goals with their system. Once we understand these two factors, and once we’ve evaluated the system, we need to inform them of how we can give them exactly what they’re looking for from us. These are our key points of the Assessment StepOur Assessment Step begins when we begin our tour of the home, continues through our evaluation, and concludes once we’ve checked-in with our customer and are returning to our vans to write our report.The Decision StepIn order to provide that five-star experience to our customers, we must create customer-focused options, present them in an easily understood manner, and then answer any questions and alleviate any concerns the customer has about their options. This is exactly what we’ll do during our Decision Step.Our Decision Step begins as we build good options and it continues until our customer has made a choice for what works best for them today.The Deliver StepDuring the Deliver Step, we will complete approved work, or schedule said work if necessary, finish up our conversations with the customer, and ask them for a review. Essentially we’re tying a bow on the entire customer experience.Our Deliver Step begins as we make necessary repairs to the system or schedule future visits and concludes as we exit the home and finish the call.Critical ActionsDuring our five steps, we have 4 Critical Actions that are responsible for somewhere around 80% of the success we can have on a call. Every element of the call is important, but these specific actions are the most important for us to provide our customers with an outstanding experience that arrives at a mutually beneficial outcome.NoteOur standard HVAC Service Field Strategy Guide includes five critical actions, but the SILO version of the process only has four as one has been eliminated to provide a higher chance of achieving our goals.We’ll touch on each action as we dive into the details of the process, but keep an eye out for these five things to hone in on:Setting clear expectations with the customerAsking good questions, taking notes, and listening to understandCreating good, customer-centric optionsAnswering questions and handling objectionsThe Two Key ObjectivesAs we go through the steps and the critical actions in the Field Strategy Guide, keep in mind that we have two key objectives we want to achieve as we navigate through the call:Make the customer’s time with you more valuable than they can spend it anywhere else in the worldHelp the customer arrive at their own solutionReady StepThere are three critical elements to our Ready Step: the 5-5-20, our physical preparation, and our mental preparation.5-5-20Frequency: One Per DayThe purpose of what’s called the 5-5-20 is primarily to get technicians mentally prepared to go out and win the day. The numbers in 5-5-20 represent a different item or action that is taken care of in the morning as the team starts their day.5 GoalsSetting goals for a singular day drives us to go out and actually achieve them. If we don’t have specific goals in mind, how do we know if we’ve truly won the day or not? The goals don’t necessarily need to be work related, but they should all be goals that can be achieved for that day. So let’s start our day by writing down five same-day goals we want to achieve as we begin our day.5 GratitudesIt’s been proven that expressing things that you’re grateful for leads to a better, more positive mental state. If we want to truly approach our customers with the intention to help them and give them a high-level experience, a positive mental state is a great place to start. It’s easy for technicians, especially during our busy seasons, to get bogged down with things being hard, because it’s a hard job. Let’s follow up our goals by writing down five things we are grateful for as we begin our day. 20 RepsReps, as in reps of an exercise. It could be anything: push-ups, air squats, pull-ups, crunches, whatever gets the blood flowing. On the surface, this seems like it applies to physical fitness more than mental fitness, and to a point it does, but this is included in our 5-5-20 to get the blood flowing. Our brains operate more effectively when we’re physically active, so let’s start our day by doing just that with 20 reps of any exercise.Physical PreparationFrequency: Once Per DayTwo important things during the course of a technician’s day are 1) to be able to actually do their job, and 2) to make a good first impression with our customers. If we make sure that we are physically prepared every day, we put ourselves in a better position to achieve these two goals.How to Physically Prepare:Ensure we are maintaining proper hygieneDouble check our appearanceAre our uniforms clean? Do we have our shirts tucked in? Did we wear our belts?Are we wearing a company branded hat? Are we wearing it in a professional way (i.e. forward)?Have we neatly trimmed our facial hair? If not wearing a hat, does our hair look professional?Ensure we have all necessary tools, parts, and materials to do our jobs that dayMake sure we have all of our technology (phones and tablets) with us and chargedIf using paper options sheets, make sure we have plenty to get through our dayMental PreparationFrequency: Before Each CallWe mentally prepare in order to approach every customer with the intention to help them and provide them with an outstanding customer experience. If we bring the baggage of previous calls with us to our next call, or if we don’t review their history to understand their situation, we’re not in the best position possible to achieve this goal.How to Mentally Prepare:Check your mindsetWe have to let anything that happened on previous calls, or previous days, go. Whether those are good things or bad things that happened. The most important call of the day is the call you’re on, and your customer is counting on you to take care of them.Understand that if you’re running a demand service call, you’re likely walking into a situation where this is one of the most stressful days of a customer’s month, if not their year. Put yourself in their shoes, then be the person who you’d want to be helping you out, or better yet, helping out a loved one.Review customer historyIf you walk into a home and don’t know that that customer has an upgraded filter cabinet, or that they replaced their system a couple years ago, it’s really easy to accidentally put your foot in your mouth when talking to them. Take a few minutes and review the following:Why are we going out today?How long have they been a customer of ours?What work have we done for them in the past?What work have we recommended that they did not move forward with?What opportunities might you have to help them improve their system?Pregame Call-by-CallThe full call-by-call process will be included in a separate process, but after we check our mindset and review history, and likely as we drive to our next appointment, that’s the time where we make our Pregame Call to our manager.Welcome StepAs we arrive at our customer’s home, they know they need us for something and they’ve likely done some level of research on our company. There are still, however, a lot of unknowns for our customer. The most critical unknown at this point of the call is you, the stranger about to walk into their home. Even if you’ve been there several times in the past, it’s at most twice per year, and you’re still mostly a stranger.So during our Welcome Step, we have one primary objective and that’s to get our customer to trust us.Building TrustDuring our Welcome Step, we’re going to build trust in three main ways:We will demonstrate empathy for the customer, the problem they’re facing, and for their home so they trust us as peopleWe will demonstrate expertise as professionals in what we do so they trust us as techniciansWe will set clear expectations with the customer so they have trust in what to expect todayDemonstrating EmpathyEmpathy is the ability to understand and share the feelings of another, and it’s the first thing we do when we walk into a home. Ideally, we are not faking empathy, we are truly able to understand and share the feelings of our customer. How do we demonstrate this at the very beginning of the call?With Our Actions and Words:We knock on the door, take a step back, and angle ourselves slightly away from the customer at roughly a 45 degree angle. This shows empathy for their personal space.We introduce ourselves and the company we’re with, and we get their name. This shows empathy for having a stranger at your door.We verify our vehicle is parked in an acceptable location. This shows empathy for their property and others who may need to park where we haveWe ask permission to enter the home. Doing this shows empathy for welcoming someone you don’t know into your homeWe wear floor protection as we step into the home. This shows empathy for the cleanliness and condition of their homeWe look to build a personal connection with the customer. If we want our customers to trust us, that’s exponentially easier if they like us. By earning their trust, we are showing empathy for a stressful situation by being a trusted advisor.Demonstrating Empathy Example: Putting It All Together* Knock, step back, angle away from the door *Tech: “Good morning sir, I’m Sam with Sierra Air Conditioning and Plumbing, and you are…”Customer: “I’m Jack”Tech: Great to meet you Jack! Hey, before I come inside I just wanted to ask if it’s okay where I parked my van right up front?”Customer: “Yeah that’s perfect right there.”Tech: “Great, would it be okay if I come in?”Customer: “Come on in!”Tech: “Awesome, thank you so much. I’m just going to go ahead and put on these floor protectors for you”Customer: “Thank you very much, I appreciate that.”Tech: “It’s my pleasure. By the way, I saw that Golden Knights flag hanging outside, are you a big hockey fan?”Customer: “Oh yeah, I watch all the games…” etc.NoteAs we move from one portion of the Welcome Step to the next, we will naturally flow from one section to the next and the duration of each section will vary based on customer conversation and the present situation.Demonstrating ExpertiseWhile Demonstrating Empathy helps us build trust by getting the customers to like us, as we shift to Demonstrating Expertise we look to build trust by showing the customer that we are a professional in our trade. We have three or four (depending on if it’s a maintenance visit or a demand service call) that allow us to demonstrate this expertiseConfirm the reason for the call. When dispatched to the home, we will have notes on why we’re out today, but it’s important to ensure that the customer and yourself are on the same page.Ask a couple brief technical questions about the call. We want to address the system at this point, but we don’t want to get too in depth at this point. The kinds of questions will change based on whether the purpose of our visit is maintenance or demand service, and if it’s demand service, our questions will vary based on what issue the customer is facing.Confirm the customer's intent to fix the problem today (demand service call only). When we confirm intent to fix the issue today, this will build trust that we will be working to solve whatever issue the customer is facing as soon as today. “How long until my system is working again?” is one of the main anxieties a customer will have regarding the situation they’re facing, and this helps with that.Address membership status. Memberships are really critical to the health of our company and are really important for customers who want to avoid breakdowns. So whether we are thanking a customer who is presently a member, or planting a seed for a customer who hasn’t become a member yet, when we’re demonstrating expertise we want to address this important feature of our business.Demonstrating Expertise Example: Putting It All Together (Maintenance)Tech: “Alright Jack, so it looks like I’m here today to take care of your summer maintenance visit, is that right?” (Step 1)Customer: “Yes sir that’s right, you guys do this every year for me”Tech: “Awesome, I’ll be happy to take care of that for you today. Let me ask, how has your air conditioner been running so far this year?” (Step 2)Customer: “Yeah I think it’s been running pretty well, I’ve only had it running for a few weeks now but it’s blowing nice cold air.”Tech: “Yeah it got hot pretty early this year, but I’m glad to hear it’s running well. After our last visit, was it pretty smooth sailing for your heater all winter?”Customer: “Yeah, you guys did a great job, we didn’t have any issues.”Tech: “Perfect, I love to hear that. By the way, I saw in my notes that you’re a member with us and I just wanted to thank you for that. I go out to a lot of calls where people don’t get their preventative maintenance done and it causes a ton of headaches and money in the long run. You’re doing a smart thing by having us out.” (Step 4)Customer: “Oh yeah, ever since I had that breakdown in the middle of July a few years ago, I feel like I have to have you guys out to keep everything running well.”Demonstrating Expertise Example: Putting It All Together (Service)Tech: “Alright Jack, so it looks like I’m here today because your system is just blowing warm air, is that right?” (Step 1)Customer: “Yes sir that’s right, the thermostat is showing 87 and it’s getting hotter in here.”Tech: “Ah I see, I’m really sorry to hear that I know that has to be frustrating. When did you first notice it was blowing warm air?” (Step 2)Customer: “It seemed to be working when I left this morning, but when I came home from work this afternoon it was hot already.”Tech: “Okay, so it was working this morning but something happened while you were at work, is that right.”Customer: “Yeah exactly”Tech: “And besides today, have you had any other issues with your air conditioner in the last few years?”Customer: “No, this is the first time I’ve had any problems at all”Tech: “Okay so this is the first time, well we’ll figure out exactly what’s going on, but I’m guessing this is probably something you want to get taken care of today, is that right?” (Step 3)Customer: “Yeah if you can get it fixed today that would be ideal.”Tech: “Definitely, we can definitely get started on fixing your issue today once we figure out what’s going on. Now, I also saw in my notes that you’re not currently a member with us. Don’t worry, that won’t have any impact on your level of service today, but we can talk more about that later on during the call”Customer: “Okay sounds good”Setting ExpectationsExpectations will exist on every call you run, whether you set them or not. However, if we aren’t the one communicating and clarifying expectations, that only leaves one person to set expectations for us: the customer. This isn’t inherently bad, however when our customers set expectations that we don’t know about, or even worse that we can’t possibly meet, we set ourselves and our customer up for frustration later on in the call. To avoid this frustration (and the poor customer experience that comes with it) we must finish up our Welcome Step by Setting Expectations. This is also our first Critical Action during the Field Strategy Guide process.Value of the Physical CardWhen setting expectations, we have a physical card, our Agenda Card, which assists us in ensuring the expectations we set are clear and mutually agreed upon. If we’re saying everything out loud, why would we need a physical card? Well, there are several different ways that people learn and retain information: hearing, reading, seeing, and touching. If we only speak our expectations, we are only checking off one of the four boxes for how people will retain information. However, if we hand them a physical card that includes words and pictures while we verbally communicate our expectations, we are now checking off all four boxes. It’s important to remember: the physical card is not for you, it’s for the customer. As we go through our explanation, it’s also critical to use your finger or a pen to point to each box on the card as we walk through the process of the call so they can follow along with us.There are some differences between maintenance and demand service calls, so the Field Strategy Guide outlines them separately below:Principles of Setting Expectations - MaintenanceLookOn a maintenance call, we can move past the Look box pretty quickly. We’re just going to explain what it is we’ll be looking at.Thorough EvaluationThere are a few key points we must touch on during the expectations of our thorough evaluation:Explaining what we’ll be doingEnsuring we have ample time to complete the callGaining permission to share any concerns we may come acrossOptionsWe want to internally frame Options more as a “report” box. We’ll mention options, but essentially this section is explaining we’ll be building a report and IF there were any concerns that we’ll be building options. We’ll also invite others to join us as we go over the report when we return, if desired.ApprovalIt may seem strange to us, but a lot of customers have had the experience of a repair being done before they’ve given approval, and then being stuck with the bill they never signed off on. Our approval box clears that anxiety with our customer and builds trust.TodayWe discussed this earlier, but we want to double down on bringing our customer peace of mind that we can get started on any repairs they authorize today5-Star ExperienceIf we do a perfect job on the call, our customers should have a 5-star experience. During this final section of setting expectations, we want to explicitly state to our customer that this is our actual goal on the call. Not only that, but much as memberships are an incredibly important, but at times easy to overlook, part of the health of our company, so are 5-star reviews, and this portion of the Welcome Step plants a seed that we’ll discuss later when it’s time to secure that review.Principles of Setting Expectations - Demand ServiceLookOn a service call, our customer is primarily concerned with getting their main issue resolved. So as we set our expectations in our Look box, we will tell our customer that the first thing we’re going to do is take a look and diagnose exactly why their system is not operating correctly.Thorough EvaluationOur transition from Look to Thorough Evaluation will set expectations that after we figure out the main issue, we need to do a full evaluation of the entire system to make sure everything else is working in harmony.There are a few key points we must touch on during the expectations of our thorough evaluation:Explaining what we’ll be doingEnsuring we have ample time to complete the callGaining permission to share any concerns other than the main issue we are facing that we may come acrossOptionsOn a service call, our customer is fully expecting that we are going to need to build options to get their system back up and running, so setting the expectation that we’re going to build options is not only okay, but it’s expected. We’ll also invite others to join us as we go over the options when we return, if desired.ApprovalIt may seem strange to us, but a lot of customers have had the experience of a repair being done before they’ve given approval, and then being stuck with the bill they never signed off on. Our approval box clears that anxiety with our customer and builds trust.TodayWe discussed this earlier, but we want to double down on bringing our customer peace of mind that we can get started on fixing their issue today.5-Star ExperienceIf we do a perfect job on the call, our customers should have a 5-star experience. During this final section of setting expectations, we want to explicitly state to our customer that this is our actual goal on the call. Not only that, but much as memberships are an incredibly important, but at times easy to overlook, part of the health of our company, so are 5-star reviews, and this portion of the Welcome Step plants a seed that we’ll discuss later when it’s time to secure that review.Setting Expectations Example: Putting It All Together (Maintenance)Tech: “Alright so before I get started, I just want to go over what you can expect during today’s visit. I’ll be taking a look at your system for your summer maintenance. As I take a look inside and out, I’ll be doing a thorough evaluation on everything having to do with your system, primarily focused in a few areas: reliability, cleanliness, and safety. To make sure I’m respectful of your time, do you have anything else going on this afternoon I need to be mindful of time-wise?”Customer: “Nope, I have no plans today”Tech: “Okay perfect, now as I take a look at your system, if I were to notice anything that is a cause of concern for me, would you like me to make you aware?”Customer: “Yes, please do”Tech: “Of course, I’ll definitely do that. Once I finish up my thorough evaluation, I’ll find you and we can go over everything I took a look at so we’re both on the same page. Once we’re all done with that, I’ll have to head back to my van for about 15 minutes to put together a detailed report on your cooling system. Now, if I did notice anything that was a cause for concern, this is when I can build options for you to get those taken care of, and once I return we can go over those together. This would also be a great time to invite anyone else who would like to hear the details of how the system is running. Of course, I won’t start any work without your approval, however if you do approve any additional work I can get started on that for you today. And finally, my goal today is to provide you with a five-star experience. If, at any point, you don’t feel like I’m meeting your expectations of a five-star visit, I’d ask you to please just let me know so I can correct that for you, is that fair?”Customer: “Of course I can do that for you”Tech: “Thank you so much. Now, can you please show me to your thermostat?”Setting Expectations Example: Putting It All Together (Service)Tech: “Alright so before I get started, I just want to go over what you can expect during today’s visit. The first thing we’ll do is take a look and figure out exactly why your system is blowing that warm air today, Jack. As soon as we know what’s going on I’ll be sure to let you know what that problem is. Once we’re on the same page with your primary issue, I’ll be doing a thorough evaluation on everything else having to do with your system, primarily focused in a few areas: reliability, cleanliness, and safety. To make sure I’m respectful of your time, do you have anything else going on this afternoon I need to be mindful of time-wise?”Customer: “Nope, I have no plans today”Tech: “Okay perfect, now as I take a look at your system, if I were to notice anything other than your primary issue that is a cause of concern for me, would you like me to make you aware?”Customer: “Yes, please do”Tech: “Of course, I’ll definitely do that. Once I finish up my thorough evaluation, I’ll find you and we can go over everything I took a look at so we’re both on the same page. Once we’re all done with that, I’ll have to head back to my van for about 15 minutes to put together some options to get you back up and running, and once I return we can go over those together. This would also be a great time to invite anyone else who would like to hear the details of those options so we’re all on the same page. Of course, I won’t start any of this work without your approval, however if you do approve any additional work I can get started on that for you today. And finally, my goal today is to provide you with a five-star experience. If, at any point, you don’t feel like I’m meeting your expectations of a five-star visit, I’d ask you to please just let me know so I can correct that for you, is that fair?”Customer: “Of course I can do that for you”Tech: “Thank you so much. Now, can you please show me to your thermostat?”Wrapping Up the Welcome StepAt this point, we’ve put ourselves in the best position possible to build trust with our customers. We’ve shown empathy, we’ve demonstrated expertise, and we’ve set clear expectations. Now, as we move to the thermostat we transition from our Welcome Step to our Assessment Step.Assessment StepTime-wise, our Assessment Step will take up the majority of our visit. It will cover asking questions, touring the home, all of our work on the actual system, discussing the system condition with the customer, and giving the customer a ballpark on what prices they will be looking at once the options are built. If the Welcome Step was primarily focused on trust, the Assessment Step is about educating the customer, building urgency in taking action today, and ensuring the solutions you will provide make sense for them (of course we are still building trust at the same time).Asking Good QuestionsThe first section of our Assessment Step is our second critical action, which is asking questions, taking notes, and listening to understand. Our primary goal in asking questions is to understand how the customer interacts with their system, discover what frustrations they may have with their system (even if they’re not presently aware of those frustrations), and essentially uncover how we can best help them improve their quality of life. An important distinction is that this part of the call is not simply called “Asking Questions,” it’s “Asking Good Questions.” So let’s uncover what makes a question a good question.What Makes a Good QuestionRelates to a service we provide. In the context of good questions to find out how we can help a customer, inherently that must refer to services we provide, otherwise we would not be able to help. This is a good starting point, however, when thinking of questions to ask: “What services might they benefit from and how do I find out if they would benefit?”Open-ended. Closed-ended questions can be answered with a simple “yes” or “no,” while open-ended questions require a bit of thought and a more thorough response. Open-ended questions begin with: who, what, when, where, why, which, and howLifestyle focused. Lifestyle questions relate to a person’s experience, and when they talk about their experience it brings emotions into play. Finding out emotions, such as frustration or disappointment, allow us to help alleviate those issues.Not directly offering a solution. Asking questions this early in the call is never the time to be trying to “sell” the customer something directly. Our questions should be solely focused on exploring a customer’s experience with their system, not questions like “have you ever considered replacing your system?”Followed-up on (if called for). If a customer gives a response to our initial question that indicates frustration, disappointment, discomfort, etc., we should be asking follow-up questions to find out more. For example, if I ask “How well does your system maintain the temperature you set your thermostat to?” and the customer replies “It actually struggles sometimes,” I should want to find out more. I could ask “When do you notice this mostly?” or “How often does this happen?” or “Who is this affecting the most?” All good follow-up questions, but it’s all too easy to not ask these questions.Required Good QuestionsThese are questions that can be asked on every call and, because they help us to really understand a customer’s experience with their system, important enough that they must be asked on every call.3 Critical QuestionsHow long have you lived in the home?Gives us context for their experienceIs that when you purchased the home?Ensures we are speaking with the owner of the homeHow long do you plan on staying in the home?Gives us context for what will be important for themOther Required QuestionsHow often are you changing your air filters?This is required if we do not change them regularly for the customer. For example if they have a filter cabinet where we bring filter replacements twice a year, we don’t need to ask.Potential follow-up questions:Why do you choose these filters specifically?Why do you change them that often?Who generally changes them out?Who in the home suffers from allergies?How often do you have to dust the home?(Each of these should have follow-up questions as well)Which rooms in the home tend to get hotter or colder than other rooms?Potential follow-up questions:What are you doing to help with that?Who does this affect the most?What temperature do you keep the thermostat set for in the summer? And what about the winter?Mandatory Follow-Up“And what does a standard power bill look like for you setting it there in the summer?”Other Follow-UpHow well does your system maintain those temperatures on the hottest and coldest days of the year?Maintenance Required QuestionWhat were you hoping we could accomplish while I’m here for your (summer/winter) maintenance?We must remember, they are choosing to pay us to come do their maintenance, this isn’t the DMV where they have to deal with us. There must be a reason why and this question gives us the answer.Other Good QuestionsThere are a vast number of questions that can be good to ask on a specific call. The questions above must be asked, but these are some more questions to keep in your toolbox and work into your calls to better find out how you can help the customer.Who normally services your system?This is good if we haven’t been out in awhile, or if it’s our first visit out to the property everWhen was the last time you had your system serviced?Also good if we haven’t been out in awhile, or if it’s our first visit out to the property everWhen to Ask QuestionsAs a best practice, selecting one or two questions for each area of the home is preferred. We don’t want it to feel like an interrogation, so standing in one location and asking 10 questions in a row can feel a bit awkward. Choose two questions you will ask at the thermostat, two questions you will ask near the filters, and a question you will as you move through the home or at the attic access. If you make it a habit to ask the same questions at the same locations on every call, never again will you be too busy thinking of what question you want to ask next rather than listening to the customer’s answer to the previous question.Evaluation and Check-InsOnce you finish getting a tour of the home and asking your good questions, but before you move onto doing your evaluation, we should be asking one final question to show respect for the customer’s home and privacy:“I’m going to go ahead and get to work, when I’m ready to come back inside, would you prefer I knock or just let myself in?”This process will not cover your evaluation, so we will fast forward to the check-ins with our customer. These are critical to building the urgency and ensuring the solution makes sense, as discussed previously.When to Check-InIf you’re on a demand service call, check-in with the customer when you find the root cause of their problemAny time you’re doing a thorough evaluation, check-in when you complete “one half” of the system (indoor section or outdoor section) as you move to the other area.Obviously on a package unit this will not apply, and one check-in post-thorough-evaluation is sufficient.When you complete your full evaluationImportant NoteWe do not take tools or our ladder back to our truck before every check-in is complete. We also should not be taking tools or our ladder back to our truck before coming back for the decision step. If we start packing up, it signals to our customers that we are done. If we’ve noticed any concerns, we are absolutely not done.How to Check-InDraw the Picture. See the “System Explanation Drawing” video for more information, but this will remove confusion and clarify a lot when showing the homeowner what you noticed and when getting them to diagnose.Check Your Tone. If we have concerns, remember: Bad news is bad news. We should be approaching like a doctor giving bad news to a patient, because that is essentially what we’re doing. Consciously remind yourself of this before sharing what you noticed.Keep It Simple. One of the cardinal sins during the check-in portion of the call is getting too technical. Our homeowners don’t know air conditioning, and realistically it’s unlikely they really care about how it works. Eliminate technical phrases from your vocabulary, eliminate words like “amps” and “volts” and “superheat.” It’s better to use simple words, even if they’re incorrect, or better yet, use understandable and approachable analogies.Show Pictures. While going through your thorough evaluation, you should be “favoriting” any photos you take of your concerns. This allows you to quickly and easily flip through these pictures during your check-ins, rather than awkwardly scrolling past dozens of photos of things you’re not discussing. After the call you can simply “un-favorite” them. Showing pictures lets a customer visualize parts of the system and the problems they’re facing, increasing urgency and ensuring the solution feels like the right one.Get the Customer to Diagnose the Problem. See the “Getting Customer to Diagnose” video for an in-depth how-to, but know that our goal is to explain things in a way that is so understandable to a customer, that when you ask “What do you think we need to do with this part?” their answer is “Probably replace it” or something similar.Transition to Decision StepThe hard work is done in the Assessment Step, all we need to do is transition back to our van. At this point, we’re going to bring our physical agenda card back out so we can keep them in the loop on where we’re at in the process.How to TransitionShow Completed Steps. Using your agenda card, show that we’ve completed both the Look and Thorough Evaluation portions of the call.Explain Next Step. Still using the card, show that you’re going to head out to your van to build some options.Commit to a Time. We want to let them know, realistically and accurately, how long we’ll be out in our van. Our target for this should be 15 minutes, but if 20 is more accurate say 20. We don’t want to come in earlier than what we commit to, but we also don’t want to come in later either. We want to set a specific time when we will be back.Invite Others. We did this as we were setting expectations, but we’re going to do it again. In wanting to provide a great customer experience, that applies to all customers, not just the one we are speaking with at this time.Check-In. Find out if they have any other questions before you leave them to build options.Transition Example“Okay Jack, so we’ve finished looking at the system, as well as the thorough evaluation. So from here I’m going to head out to my van to build my report and build those options we discussed and that should take me 15 minutes, then I’ll come back and we’ll go over everything together. When we go over everything, if there’s anyone else who wants to be part of this conversation, this would be the most important time for them to be around, even if that’s over the phone or on FaceTime. I just want to make sure everyone who would like the information gets to be a part of the process. Before I step out, what questions do you have for me?”Decision StepTypically, the Decision Step involves the most anxiety for technicians. And it makes sense: this is when we have to talk about all our options, show them prices, and overcome a million objections. Those things can be challenging, but the good news is that if you’ve done everything correctly so far, so much of this work is already done for you. They trust the company, they believe the time is right, they diagnosed the issue so the solutions have to make sense. At this point of the call, you’re bringing them solutions that they actively want. Not that there won’t be some of those things still, but it’s going to be way easier than you’ve experienced in the past.Building OptionsAs we get back to our van, we are beginning our third critical action of the Field Strategy Guide, which is building good, customer-centric options. When we define “good, customer-centric options,” we are simply looking at including things which help the customer, which we’ve earned the right to present, and doing so in a bundled or packaged format.How to Build OptionsFill out the Summary at the top of your options sheet. Our summary is a brief description of why we were called to the home and a reason for doing a thorough evaluation, along with some other standard language. For example, “I arrived at Jack’s home as his air conditioning system is only blowing warm air. He advised me that he moved in less than a month ago, therefore we conducted a thorough evaluation on the system so he has a better understanding of the system.” And one line below that, centered on the page, we write “See findings below:” Build your immediate repairs in Option A. How do we define the Immediate Repairs which go into Option A? Immediate repairs are any and all repairs which are recommended to allow consistent, reliable operation of the entire system between now and six months from now. On a maintenance call, this could be anything that you have reason to believe could break down in the next six months and anything which is currently outside of manufacturer specifications. We will usually have immediate repairs on any call we run. To complete Option A, we physically write “A. Immediate Repairs” and underneath, we bullet point each repair on its own line. When writing the repairs, use customer friendly language such as “Indoor Motor” or “Voltage Switch” rather than blower motor or contactor. To the far right of the page, on the same line as your first bullet pointed item, we list the price for the entire bundle of immediate repairs.Build your future repairs in Option B. When we define future repairs, we can say that they are anything which you have some concerns about becoming an immediate repair in the future, based on your inspection and readings. If we have a capacitor getting close to being out of specifications, or a compressor with inrush near or exceeding the LRA, these will be future repairs. The odds of having future repairs on any call is exceedingly high, well over a 99% likelihood that something has some signs of wear and tear. Option B is written in paragraph format, after the heading of “B. Future Repairs”, as follows: “During our evaluation we noticed hot spots on the control board and some pitting on the voltage switch on the outdoor unit. These parts are currently in safe working order, however when they fail they will cost around $2400 to replace.” Some key notes:We keep all language homeowner friendlyWe round our price estimate to a square number, and it is an estimate, not exact pricingWe should work to write that price estimate as close to being in line with the immediate price to the far right of the page.Add your Efficiency Statement beneath your future repairs, still under Option B. Our efficiency statement always begins the same way, the only thing that will change is the actual percentage we use at the end, which depends on the existing efficiency of the equipment and the minimum standard efficiency currently. The math: Efficiency of their existing system (SEER) divided by current minimum efficiency (Also SEER) minus 1 multiplied by 100. We must also remember that minimum standards are currently SEER2, not SEER. You can convert online, but for reference 14 SEER2 = 14.7 SEERExample: Current system is 12 SEER, current minimum efficiency is 15.2 SEER. 12/14.7 = .816 ::::: .789-1 = -.183 ::::: -.183 x 100 = -18.3%In this example, we know that the efficiency loss is roughly 18% by keeping the old system.The statement: “Due to the age and condition of the system, you are currently overpaying on utilities by 18%”When writing the statement, we should work to write the percentage figure in line with both our prices for Option A and Option B, to the far right of the page.Build Option C. Option C is simple, as it’s always written exactly the same. We write “C. System Update” as our header. For the option, what you must write is: “It may be time to speak with someone from our install team about upgrading your system to the energy standards of today.”ReconnectingWe’ve spent a lot of time in the call getting the customer to like and trust us, then all of a sudden we drop a bomb on them with Price Transparency and then we leave them for 15 minutes. This is likely to have shaken up that like/trust factor a bit. So rather than coming in and getting right down to business, we will Reconnect with our customer right before presentingHow to ReconnectThank Them. This should be a genuine statement of appreciation to the customer. Maybe they’ve shown you a collection, maybe they’ve talked to you about their recent vacation and showed you some pictures, but at the very least they’ve given you their time and attention, and we want to verbally thank them for something.The Company. We’ve built a lot of trust in ourselves, and they’ve likely either had prior experiences with our company or at the very least done some research online about us, but this is a great time to drop in something that you think is really cool about the company, specifically related to something the customer would think is really cool too.The Pricing. Believe it or not, there are a lot of companies who still run their businesses in a Time & Material model. What this does, however, is cause a customer to become hyper-focused on how long a job is going to take. We want to inform them that the prices we have on our options sheet are their final prices. No strings attached.Today. You might be starting to see a common theme with “Today,” but in our modern society people want things done quickly. Letting them know that we can get started today gives them comfort in decision makingReconnect Example“Alright Jack, so I have all these options ready for you but before we get into that, I just really want to thank you for your time today. I’m sure there are things you’d rather be doing than spending your afternoon with the air conditioning guy, but it means a lot that you set this time aside to show me around and let me fill you in on your system. Now, we haven’t talked much about Sierra, but I love working here because they really put their employees and their customers first. It really gives me a lot of pride to know they have my back as well as yours. Another thing really cool about our company is that our pricing is all upfront pricing. What that means for you, is the prices I share with you are your final prices, regardless of how long it takes me to get the job done or what materials I need to use. This allows me to take my time, get the job done right, and clean up after myself without you worrying if I’m going to have to charge you for another hour. So let’s get to the options, I’ve created four different options for you. They’re all great choices and I’d be happy to start on any of these for you today.”Explaining Your OptionsExplaining the options you created should be one of the most concise, straightforward parts of the process, assuming you understand the products, but is often the most convoluted by technicians. The more confusing this gets, the less likely it is that our customer will accept any options that were specifically designed to help them, which is bad customer service. To keep it simple we have four steps.How to Explain Your OptionsLink It. We explain each line item in our options, and we explain why it’s there by linking it to a repair the customer has diagnosed. We should also, in customer friendly language, explain why each item is important to their system’s operation. Remember, that people don’t tend to care about operational specifics, they care about what’s in it for them. We will also link Option C to the cost to keep the system going and any other concerns the customer has with their existing systemSay It. With confidence, state what the total price is for Option A, what it will be for Option B, and their utility overpayment in your efficiency statement.Spin It. After covering each option, we physically hand the customer our options sheet so they can look through everything themselves. As we do this, we prompt them to make a decision by saying, specifically: “So go ahead and take a look and let me know which option works best for you today.”Zip It. They have the options sheet, and the burden of the conversation is on their shoulders. There is nothing for you to say or do at this moment. So hang out and don’t say anything until the customer says something to you.Explaining Your Options Example“Okay Jack, so you called me out today as your system was only blowing warm air, since you’ve just recently moved in we went ahead and did that thorough evaluation and I have your options listed here:“So first we have Option A, and these are your immediate repairs. These are the things that we need to take care of to get your system back up and running. So the only item here is going to be that outdoor fan motor.  You may remember this is that motor I showed you that’s in the unit next to your house, and we talked about how when it isn’t working, your system can’t get rid of any heat which explains why it’s so hot in here. The cost to take care of that today is going to be one thousand two hundred and forty nine dollars. Did you have any questions about the immediate repairs? [pause to answer questions] Your next option is going to be your future repairs. These are things that are still in safe working order, however it’s not if—but when—they fail. In this option we have your control board up in your attic, which I showed you had those brown marks on the back, and that voltage switch outside which we talked about showing some real signs of wear and tear. And when these parts fail it’s going to cost you around $2,400 to replace them.“In addition, because we talked about your energy bills going up every year, I took some extra time to do an energy analysis for you, and what that told me is you’re likely overpaying by at least 21% just to run this old system.“So based on the fact that we’re looking at almost $1,300 today, roughly $2,400 coming up in the future, and seeing that you’re overpaying on utility bills by over 20%, it’s just…a lot of money for an old system. So for those reasons I included Option C which would be to get all your options on the table and talk with someone from our install team about upgrading your system to something newer and more efficient before we start pouring all this money into an old system.“So go ahead and take a look at this and let me know which option works best for you today.”Driving ClarityOnce we’ve presented our options, one of two things is likely to happen. Either our customer selects an option, or our customer has questions, concerns, or objections. If the latter happens, it’s time for our fourth, and final, critical action which is Answering Questions and Handling Objections.How to Handle ObjectionsWhen we are looking to handle specific objections, it’s best to reference the “Handling Objections” series, but to state some general guidelines to approach when it comes to handling objections, we can do the following:Begin with empathy. Some objections are real, some objections are a smokescreen. We may have a hunch which is which, however we may be wrong. So it’s important to show empathy to every objection. This can be as simple as “Hey, I totally understand that you…”Ask a question. If, rather than following our empathy with a question, we follow it with a statement, it’s likely we will sound defensive: like we’re fighting for a sale. Rather than defensiveness, a question allows us to just be curious and to keep the conversation going.Focus on helping. This should be a primary driver throughout our entire call, but if we can bring our focus to what the customer has stated is important, and how these repairs can give them a better, more reliable system or quality of life, we are doing our best to put our customer first which is going to provide them with a great experience even as we look to bring clarity to their objections.Price Objections for SILO TechniciansThis may seem like a strange claim on its face, but as SILO technicians we want price objections when we present our options sheet. Why is this? Because, if a customer believes that the price for repairs are too expensive for their aging system, the likelihood they explore all potential options, which is really our main goal on the call, is much higher.A response when you hear “Wow, that’s a lot of money” when we present our options sheet could be something like:	“Yeah, you’re right, especially for this old system”However you respond, embrace the price objection.The DecisionAt this point in the call, whether we had to handle objections or not, the customer will have made some kind of a decision. If that decision was to move forward with work that we recommended, there is a simple recommendation to finish with:	“Great choice, what do you like about that option?”This, first of all, confirms they made a good choice. We did say that every option was a good one just a few minutes ago after all. Secondly, when we ask them what they like, it gives them reinforcement by stating out loud exactly why they’re making that decision. This will reduce buyers’ remorse, or potentially give them a quick practice run at explaining to anyone else who wasn’t present at the appointment why they chose what they chose. Both of these things bring peace of mind to our customers, and a happy customer means we gave them an exceptional experience during our visit. Once the decision is made, our decision step has been completed and it’s time to move onto our fifth, and final, step.When Customer Commits to Exploring Option CWe’ve done everything right and our customer now wants to take a look at what it would cost to upgrade their system with something newer and likely more efficient. All of our hard work is done, but the work is not completely done yet.While You Wait for the Comfort AdvisorAs soon as a customer informs you they want to go ahead with exploring Option C, we should reach out to the office and coordinate for someone to come out to the home. Stay in the home, at the table, while you make this call. Once you hang up with the call you should:Remain with the customer for the entire duration of waiting for the Comfort Advisor to arrive. We want to keep our trust and rapport built with the customer and we want to keep them engaged while we wait. If you absolutely must leave the table for some reason, you need to make it as fast as possible, but it is strongly discouraged.Change the topic to something completely unrelated to HVAC. If you start talking about the system more, or about new system options, or about warranties and payment plans, there is a good chance you’re going to either talk the customer out of this decision or negatively impact the experience once the Comfort Advisor arrives, and therefore their likelihood of converting the old system into a new one, which affects both the customer and your paycheck. So talk about sports, talk about vacations, talk about pets. Talk about anything other than their system and their decision.Once the Comfort Advisor ArrivesOur goal once the Comfort Advisor is on-site is to let the conversation flow naturally between the customer and the Comfort Advisor without interjecting at all. There is never a situation, after the greeting of course, where you should be adding to the conversation unless either the customer or the Comfort Advisor asks for you to contribute. Nothing will confuse the customer more, or impact the outcome of the call more, than you interrupting when you shouldn’t be.Here are the key points to keep in mind once the Comfort Advisor shows up to the home:Greet the Comfort Advisor at the door and introduce them to the customer. The customer knows you, but not your coworker. Introduce them both by name to each other, and maybe throw in “This is my friend Jordan” or something similar when introducing the Comfort Advisor to the customer.Leave your options sheet on the table. The options sheet may need to be revisited during the sales process. Leave it on the table so it’s easily accessible to both the customer and the Comfort Advisor.Leave your ladder and drop cloth set up. You shouldn’t have packed up at any point in the call yet, so this is as simple as just leaving everything still in place to make the tour of the home and system as quick and painless as possible.Stay with the Comfort Advisor until you are dismissed. Sit passively, ideally next to the customer, while the Comfort Advisor moves through their process. At some point they may dismiss you, at which point you can pack up your things and leave the house, thanking the customer on your way out.Deliver StepOur Deliver Step is the last step of the Field Strategy Guide, and it’s also the easiest.The first thing we do in the Deliver Step is to complete the work and clean up the area, ensuring you leave it better than you found it.Once the work has been completed, we’re ready to finish up. The main thing we want to pay attention to as we move into these last few sections is to keep the energy positive and finish on a high note. Be A NerdWhen we come back to our customer upon completion of our work, we are going to go against the guidance from our check-in section and we are going to get really technical. Up to this point of the call we’ve done everything we can to simplify our technical explanations of the work we performed, however if when showing our pictures of completed work to the customer we all of a sudden turn that technical knob up to “high,” our customer will now understand that we really do know what we’re talking about, but there’s no longer the fear of confusing the customer and having them elect to “think it over.”SAM MembershipIf you’ve completed work for Option A, now is the time to visit the idea of becoming a SAM member with the customer. We should talk about all the benefits, but especially show them how becoming a member will help keep an eye on the future repairs to catch them before they either become worse, or become immediate repairs. This will also give them a discount on the repairs they’ve already agreed to.Secure That 5-Star ReviewWe planted this seed way back as we were setting expectations and now it’s time to harvest. We’re going to refer back to that initial phrase and transition that into asking for the customer to leave us a five-star review. As you go through this, it’s definitely okay to make it personal and fun. Keep the intro the same, but the reasons why you want the review can be whatever you’d like.Getting Your Review ExampleTech: “Alright Jack, so that takes care of everything. Now before I go, I mentioned earlier my goal today was to give you a five-star experience and I asked you to stop me if I wasn’t meeting your expectations. So…I noticed you didn’t stop me, is it safe to say that I gave you five-star service today?”Customer: “Yeah, I think that’s more than fair”Tech: “Awesome, I’m happy you feel that way! Could you do me a huge favor before I go? If you can just tap your phone to this badge it’ll take you right to a page to leave me a review. If you could leave me that five-star review and mention my name, that really helps me out with my boss, plus my kids love to see the reviews their dad gets.”Thank Them AgainAs you leave the house, keep that positive energy we talked about and thank the customer for their business. And now, you’re done!RecapThat’s a wrap on the Field Strategy Guide. This process is proven to work and the better you can stick to what’s written in this process, you’re going to have more success, the customers will have better experiences, and it just so happens that you’re going to make more money.